[Music]
eight mistakes that prevent you from
losing excess fat no matter what you do
no matter how hard you work out you're
still unable to lose those stubborn
extra pounds if you can relate to this
you're not alone millions of people are
striving to lose excess weight and
failing statistically more than
one-third 36.5% to be precise of the
adult population in the u.s. is obese
thirty two point five percent more are
overweight on top of that seventeen
percent of children in the u.s. aged
from two to nineteen have excess weight
lots of these people are more than eager
to get rid of the extra inches around
their waist but they can't luckily we
have a list of the eight most common
mistakes that make it harder for you to
get a perfectly toned body and it
doesn't matter how much you sweat it out
at the gym but before you find out the
secrets for effective weight loss click
the red subscription button it will take
you to the bright side of life where
you'll find hundreds of cool videos and
if you wring the notification bell as
well you'll be the first to see the new
videos that appear on our channel
several times a day number eight you
treat all calories equally the calories
you consume are not equal eating a
hundred calories of vegetables is not
the same as eating a hundred calories of
ice cream and they're not going to have
the same effect on your body if you take
your weight loss process seriously you
should consider how much insulin is
released by your body
this figure is based on the type of
calories you take in insulin is a
hormone that is secreted naturally and
your body can't function normally
without it
insulin regulates how much glucose your
blood contains and glucose provides your
body with energy but when a lot of
insulin is released by the body
consistently throughout the day it
prevents fat loss on top of that it
encourages the body to store energy as
body fat the types of calories that
spike insulin the most are those from
carbohydrates in the form of simple
sugar so if you want to eat carbs and
have stable insulin levels stick to
healthy carbs from food that's digested
slowly products that contain slow carbs
include beans and legumes
grains rice and pasta whole grain bread
and cereals along with these good carbs
protein can also increase your insulin
levels this is especially true for the
protein and dairy based products like
skim milk and yogurt number seven you
don't focus enough on lean body mass you
cut down your calories and do a lot of
cardio yet your extra fat is still
sticking around in this case it might be
a good idea to focus on your lean body
mass this is your total weight the
weight of your muscles and bones - your
fat weight increasing your lean body
mass wakes up your resting metabolism
it also affects many different hormones
in the body including insulin leptin and
ghrelin these hormones communicate with
your cells and inform them of whether
it's time to store fat or release it
there are several important things you
should know if you want to build up your
lean body mass eat high-protein meals in
the early evening this will stimulate
protein synthesis and decrease your
appetite as a result you won't feel
hungry enough to munch on snacks before
going to bed don't exclude fat from your
diet completely the healthy fats in fish
avocado olive oil and some other
products provide your body with enough
fuel to tone your muscles during
workouts do short high-intensity cardio
workouts they help to maintain lean body
mass and burn the fat that covers your
muscles make sure you get enough vitamin
D it's crucial if you want to increase
your lean body mass because your muscles
use this vitamin to synthesize proteins
number six you believe that eating more
meals throughout the day will help you
lose weight and burn fat there's a
special diet called intermittent fasting
and it's an amazing way to burn fat
it's a regimen that includes short
periods of fasting that alternate with
longer periods of eating whatever you
want during the periods of fasting
people either consume no food or
significantly reduce their calorie
intake fasting lowers insulin levels
more than any other dietary methods do
it also causes your body to release
glucagon to draw energy from your cells
include
your fat cells those who follow this
regimen believe that it's better to have
one 1600 calorie meal at the end of the
day than to have several 400 calorie
meals during the day at the same time
you should avoid fasting if you have one
of the following conditions diabetes use
of medicines that can only be taken
after a meal active stage of growth
eating disorders such as anorexia or
bulimia pregnancy or breastfeeding
number 5 you believe that doing a lot of
cardio is the only way to lose fat
cardio might not seem as interesting and
exciting as other exercises still people
think it's the only way to lose weight
but since it can get rather boring they
stop putting in the effort to lose
weight altogether
why does cardio fail to help you lose
excess weight there might be several
reasons for this paradox after a hard
workout people often reward themselves
with tasty and high-calorie food a study
conducted in 1993 discovered that a hard
workout actually impairs the body's
ability to lose fat effectively cardio
exercises can sometimes mess with
hormone levels in such a way that your
body will prefer to store fat rather
than get rid of it this is especially
true for women cardio might result in
the loss of muscle tissue which will
lead to the reduction of burned calories
the good news is that there are other
ways to burn fat without having to spend
long hours on the treadmill the best way
to reap the benefits of cardio is to
incorporate it with weight training your
trainer can help you create special
sessions designed around your fitness
goals number 4 you believe ads about
magical fat-burning pills unfortunately
there are no shortcuts where fat loss is
concerned fat burning supplements will
increase your resting heart rates very
high and unhealthy levels on top of that
such pills and supplements can have
serious side effects including vomiting
nausea high blood pressure dizziness and
diarrhea they can also have a negative
effect on cholesterol levels therefore
the best way to accelerate weight loss
is a healthy lifestyle and not a match
number three you aren't getting enough
sleep a lack of sleep throws your body's
hormone levels off balance which then
impact your hunger levels the next day
the two main hormones that affect your
appetite are gralen the hormone that
makes you feel hungry and leptin the
hormone that makes you feel full when
you don't get enough sleep the level of
gralen rises while your leptin levels
drop this causes you to feel hungry and
overeat to get sound sleep try going to
bed a little earlier than usual the best
amount of sleep is at least seven to
eight hours number two you're feeling
stressed feeling stressed can wreak
havoc on human bodies stress causes the
body to produce a steroid hormone called
cortisol this hormone increases your
cravings for sugary foods which provide
instant energy and pleasure when your
cortisol levels remain high for a long
period of time it can increase the
amount of fat your belly stores number
one you're trying too hard your body
needs a healthy balance of exercise and
rest doing too many hard workouts
prevents your body from shifting excess
fat what's more exercising without
getting proper rest is perceived by your
body as stress and as with any other
stress and this impacts the level of
cortisol in your body which causes an
increase in the stubborn fat stored in
the belly do you know of any other
mistakes that can prevent people from
losing excess weight tell us about them
in the comments below if this video has
been useful to you give us a thumbs up
and remember to click Subscribe as life
is always more interesting on the bright
side
[Music]